Hiding or showing elements is something that we might
often encounter in modern web applications for
example we might display a form modal when a button
is clicked or hide it when other element being clicked.
We might also display a message when no data is found or hide it
if no record found without need to reload the page and
much more. Vue js provides a mechanism for showing
or hiding elements based on certain conditions.
The first one is the v-if directive. The v-if will add
or remove element in the DOM conditionally
it will add an element
where it's defined when it's evaluates to true
or it will remove the element dynamically if it evaluates to false.
All right
let's open conditional rendering
one dot html.
And here we have a message.
You have no any record and a hide message button. We will
hide this message or remove the message to be precise if the
hide message button is clicked. Let's switch back over to
our editor then open conditional rendering one dot html
and here the message that we will hidden.
So here we can say v-if equals and then pass in a value
let's say hide alert. Now we can go to vue option
then define data property.
Inside here let's define hide alert property
and it will be true by default
actually let me just change the name to show
alert because I think it's more descriptive.
Let's save and let's make sure that the message still appears.
OK in this button
let's define an event handling by making use v-on click directive
then inside here
let's change the show alert
to false.
save back to our browser.
And let's see now if I click the hide message
button now the message disappears.
So by changing the show alert to false this alert will
be hidden because the condition in v-if directive is
not met.
In the real cases we usually show this kind of message
if there's no record found or hide it when records
found for example here we can check if the record is empty
record dot length and show alert is true
then we show the alert.
So in other word the alert will be hidden if the data
is not empty or if we click the hide message button.
Now in the data property we can define a new property
records which is an empty array.
In practice we can fill these records with the real
data that we retrieve from the back end API
through AJAX.
Let's see here the alert still appears.
Now we can try to hit the hide message button and now it's gone
now
If we filled this records property with any data
now the alert will be disappears.